==============
Skill and Luck
==============

Luck is a tricky concept. So, for your sake and mine, let us hope this page is not utter
nonsense. Never assume I know more than you on the subject.

First, games are all about skill. The better player will win a fair game. Not necessarily in each
game, but he will come ahead in the long run. The expected number of points per game for a player is
called *equity*. In a game of skill the supreme master expects to win all his games his equity of 1,
one full point a game. If the game is totally random game anyone will win half and lose half, with
an equity of 0. If your chance of winning a single game is 75% your equity is 0.5: in four games you
expect to win three and lose one, for a total of two points in four games, which is on average half
a point per game.

But no one wins all the time in a real life game. I will surely lose to Stephan Curry in a three
point shooting match, but even **he** misses a few shots every hundred, and I can make a few, so in
a single shot match I might win one time in a thousand. Quite high, actually, when you think about
that lottery ticket you bought yesterday.

Those random factors we call luck limit the earning power of skill. It can buy you only that much
per time unit. In real life those random factors are physical, biological and psychological, but in
board games they are artificial, typically introduced by a random event generator (the *Dice*). The
dice is fair and oblivious to skill, and so limits the equity of better players. Even the greatest
Putzer can sometimes win against the world champion. The dice might provide him enough equity this
one time to overcome the difference in skill.

But luck, surprisingly enough, has a second source. I can beat Magnus Carlsen in a game of chess by
selecting the best moves just by chance. Obviously the effect of such luck is vanishingly small in
chess because of the number of moves per position is large, and most moves are bad or even
catastrophic. In ROGOUR, on the other hand, with only a handful moves per position, this kind of
luck might have a noticeable effect.

.. Local Variables:
.. eval: (auto-fill-mode 1)
.. fill-column: 100
.. End:

..  LocalWords:  Magnus Carlsen vanishingly ROGOUR Putzer
